add prometheus docs (#25)
sakuli/docs: content/enterprise_features/prometheus.md

---
title : "Prometheus Fowarder"
date : 2020-03-10T17:26:00+02:00
weight : 2
---

# Prometheus Forwarder

**Available from version 2.3.0**

Add the forwarder manually as follows:

{{<highlight bash>}}
npm i @sakuli/forwarder-prometheus
{{</highlight>}}

> To register the forwarder into your project you have to edit the `package.json` file and add the preset to the Sakuli configuration key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register the forwarder in your project, edit your `package.json` and add the preset to the Sakuli configuration key:
```

{{<highlight json>}}
{
    "sakuli": {
        "presetProvider": [
            "@sakuli/legacy",
            "@sakuli/forwarder-prometheus"
        ]
    }
}
{{</highlight>}}

Installation of any enterprise feature requires a proper setup of your license information. You can find further information in the [enterprise section](/docs/enterprise#using-licences-information).

## Push gateway

> It is assumed that a push gateway is available in your monitoring setup. As Sakuli checks are not constantly available like e.g. a Webservice, it is required to use a prometheus push gateway to provide a scraping endpoint for prometheus to obtain measurements gathered by Sakuli. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is assumed that a push gateway is available in your monitoring setup. As Sakuli checks are not constantly available like e.g. a Webservice, it is required to use a Prometheus push gateway to provide a scraping endpoint for Prometheus to obtain measurements gathered by Sakuli.
```

## Forwarder configuration

> Configuration is located in the file `sakuli.properties` within the root folder of your project or respectively in the `testsuite.properties` in your testsuite folders for testsuite specific configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration is located in `sakuli.properties` within the root folder of your project or respectively in `testsuite.properties` in your testsuite folders for testsuite specific configuration:
```
